New Hap Rule Doc (#1675)
kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker: docs/contributor/03-11-hap-rules.md

# HAP Rule Configuration

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is still being developed and will be available soon.

 The Hyperscaler Account Pool (HAP) Rule Configuration is a functionality that allows to control pool selection from a configurable helm property. 
 The HAP pool is a set of Gardener's SecretBindings K8S resources that share the same labels. 

>  The HAP Pool Selection is a process that for every skr creation request decides on which secret binding is the most suitable to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The HAP Pool Selection is a process that for every SKR creation request decides on which secret binding is the most suitable to use. 
```

>  The process generates a list of search labels based on skr's physical and or logical (calculated) attributes.

Reviewer: In principle we generate search labels based on plan, provider, hyperscaler region, platform region.
I am not sure which attributes are physical and which are logical (calculated). 
If the only physical is hyperscaler region (as this is physical location of the cluster) and remaining are logical we could manage without this distinction physical vs logical. Or define it explicitly to make this more clear for the reader.

Author: Physical vs logical distinction removed.

 The search labels are used to query Gardener's Secret Bindings. 
 Search labels are generated by evaluating a Rule consisting of Rule Entries and if an Entry applies to the request then the Rule outputs its specific search labels to query the correct HAP Pool.
 More about HAP process can be found in [Hyperscaler Account Pool](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md) document.

![Rules Evaluation Process](../assets/hap-rules-general.drawio.svg)

## Rule Configuration

The Rule is configured in values.yaml in `hap.rule` property.

> It is is a list of strings, each of which is a single Rule Entry that corresponds to a single HAP Pool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a list of strings, each of which is a single Rule Entry that corresponds to a single HAP Pool. 
```

Each Rule Entry is evaluated during a cluster provisioning process.
If more than one rule applies the best matching rule is selected based on the rule [priority](#priority). The following examples presents the Rule Configuration in values.yaml:

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - rule_1
  - rule_2
  ...
  - rule_n
```

Every HAP Pool that the Rule Entry represents must be preconfigured in a Gardener Cluster that KEB connects to.

## Rule Format 

The following example shows the Rule Entry format:

```
PLAN(ATTR_1=VAL_1,ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,ATTR_N)
```

In its minimal form each rule consists of a `PLAN` that the rule applies to.
The rule can be extended with a list of attributes and its values passed in the form of `ATTR=VAL` pairs.
Description of when the rule is triggered can be found in the [Rule Evaluation](#evaluation) section.
List of possible attributes is described in the [Rule Attributes](#rule-attributes) section.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - azure(ATTR_1=VAL_1,ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,ATTR_N)
```

> The extended version of a rule entry allows to pass a list of attribute/value pairs in parantheses. The attributes include **platformRegion** (`PR`), **clusterRegion** (`CR`), **shared** (`S`) and **euAccess** (`E`). Each attribute can be used at most once in a single rule entry.

Reviewer: So cluster region won in our poll?

> shared and euAccess attributes are logical which means that they are not matched with SKR attributes but are used only to apply their labels modifications if rest of matched attributes are equal to SKR's values. 

Reviewer: I would skip this sentence and this distinction: logical vs physical.
Hyperscaler cluster is not matched with SKR attributes either.

Author: Already removed after PK reviews.

Rule Attributes are described in [Rule Attributes](#rule-attributes) section.

## Rule Evaluation

HAP evaluates a set of rules to determine what labels to use when querying secret bindings.
Rule is evaluated during cluster provisioning.
Rule entries are analyzed one by one.
Physical attributes from every entry are compared with values from input, if they are the same the rule entry is considered triggered.
If there is more than one triggered rule then only one is selected in accordance to priority rules described in the [Priority](#priority) section.
If there are no rule entries trigered then the error is returned. No fallback behaviour is defined in such case.

> ## Priority

Reviewer 2: this must fail:

1) Rule:
- gcp
- gcp(S)

2) Rule:
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, PR=cf-eu11)

3) Rule:
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, EU, PR=cf-eu11)

4) Rule:
- gcp(EU, PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, EU, PR=cf-eu11)

5) Rule:
- gcp(EU, PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, PR=cf-eu11)

That means S and E is not count for comparison of rules. For example:
Rule:
- gcp(EU, PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, PR=cf-eu11)

KEB sees that like:
Rule:
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)

Which means Validation fails

Only one rule can be triggered. If more than one rule entry match the request than only one is selected by sorting them by the number of attributes they contain.
The entry that specifies most attributes (hence is more specific) is selected.
If there are more than one rule with the same number of attributes then an error is returned.

## Search Labels

> The HAP stores credentials for the hyperscaler accounts that have been set up in advance in Kubernetes Secrets that the Secret Bindings, that KEB searches for, point to. The SecretBindings are labeld with **hyperscalerType**, **shared** and **euAccess** labels. 

Reviewer 2: this must fail:

1)
Rule:
- gcp
- gcp(S)

2)
Rule:
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, PR=cf-eu11)

3)
Rule:
- gcp(PR=cf-eu11)
- gcp(S, PR=cf-eu11, euAccess)

> The **hyperscaler-type** contains hyperscaler name and region information in the format `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>][_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>]`, where both `_<PLATFORM_REGION>` and `_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` are optional. The **hypercaler-type** label is mandatory. It is value is hardcoded and computed based on a plan in [hyperscaler_type.go](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/blob/main/common/hyperscaler/hyperscaler_type.go). This means that not all plans share their name with hyperscaler types, e.g. sap-converged-plan has `openstack` plan and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` trial depending on the cluster regions. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **hyperscaler-type** contains hyperscaler name and region information in the format `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>][_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>]`, where both `_<PLATFORM_REGION>` and `_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` are optional. The **hypercaler-type** label is mandatory. It is value is computed based on a plan in [hyperscaler_type.go](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/blob/main/common/hyperscaler/hyperscaler_type.go). This means that not all plans share their name with hyperscaler types, e.g. sap-converged-plan has `openstack` plan and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` trial depending on the cluster regions. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional.
```

Every rule must contain at least a plan and apply `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>` label. For example, the following example shows a simple rule entry configuration and a SecretBinding pool that this configuration corresponds to:

```
hap:
  rule:
    - gcp

SecretBinding pools:
- hyperscalerType: gcp
```

Rest of the examples in the document follow the same structure of presenting an example configuration and corresponding HAP pools as above snippet.

## Rule Attributes

> Triggered rule entry applies that labels to the SecretBinding search query.

Reviewer: Too many sentences about the same (IMHO).
Could we rephrase?

Reviewer: applies = uses that labels during search?

Reviewer: I would try to simplify this process (or description).
We do not create search and alter it later. 
We just create search labels based on matched rule and actual attributes.

Rule entry attributes and its plan alter the search query by adding new or modifing existing search labels. Existence of an attribute in the rule means its inclusion in the search labels in addition to labels associated with rule plan.

> ### PR Attribute

Reviewer 2: Platform Region

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(S)
    - azure(PR=cf-ch20, E)

SecretBinding pools:
- hyperscalerType: gcp; shared: true
- hyperscalerType: azure_cf-ch20, euAccess: true
```

### Attribute with "*"

Attributes values can be replaced with `*` which means that all SKR values of that attribute are matched and reused in unchanged form when applying search labels modifications. For example, the following configuration makes KEB search SecretBindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_<PR>`, where `PR` corresponds to an SKR value, for all `gcp` clusters:

```
hap: 
  rule: 

>   - gcp(PR=*)

Reviewer 2: Input) gcp PR=x CR=y

Rule 1):
gcp(PR=*) - output: gcp_cf-x
gcp             - output: gcp

Validation ok? - fail. Say that input rules are not unique

Rule 2):
gcp(PR=*, CR=*) - output: gcp_cf-x_westeu
gcp.                      - output: gcp

Validation ok? - fail. Say that input rules are not unique

---
Rule)
gcp(PR=*)
gcp(CR=westeu)
gcp(PR=*, CR=westeu)

When validation, remove all PR=* and CR=* to check uniqness

* Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.
* Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup
* Every Rule Entry must refer to an existing pool.

## Initial Configuration

The last example shows initial configuration create to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:
* azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
* gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<CLUSTER_REGION>` and all of the are shared.
* trial clusters can use one of two pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` (because of hardcoded mapping of trial plan to azure or aws providers) depending on the provider type.
* azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 and aws clusters in the region cf-eu11 have their own dedicated pool.

```
hap:
 rule: 
  - "aws"

>   - "aws(EU,PR=cf-eu11)" 

Reviewer 2: Rule 1)
aws -> S                                                       - hyperType: aws
aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU                              - hyperType: aws_cf-eu11
aws(PR=cf-eu11, CR=westeu) -> EU, S     - hyperType: aws_cf-eu11_westeu

Validation ok

Rule 2) 
aws(PR=cf-eu11, CR=*) -> EU
aws(PR=cf-eu11, CR=westeu) -> EU, S

Validation ok, last rule more specific

* Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup
* Every Rule Entry must refer to an existing pool.

## Initial Configuration

The last example shows initial configuration create to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:
* azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
* gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<CLUSTER_REGION>` and all of the are shared.
* trial clusters can use one of two pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` (because of hardcoded mapping of trial plan to azure or aws providers) depending on the provider type.
* azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 and aws clusters in the region cf-eu11 have their own dedicated pool.

```
hap:
 rule: 
  - aws
  - aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU
  - azure

>   - azure(EU,PR=cf-ch20) -> EU

Reviewer 2: remove EU from () section

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(HR=us-central1) # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp_us-central1,
```

### Shared & EU Access attribute

The `shared` and `euAccess` attributes does not correspond to any SKR's property. Those atributes are only used to add search labels. If the rule entry contains `shared` or `euAccess` attributes then when triggered, a `shared: true` or `euAccess: true` labels are added to the [search labels](#search-labels). Shared label on a SecretBindings marks it as assignable to more than one SKR and euAccess is used to mark EU regions (more on that can be found in [HAP Pool document](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md)). Below configuration specifies that all gcp clusters will use the same pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: gcp`, `shared: true` and azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 will use a pool of secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: azure`, `euAccess: true`.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp -> S                # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp; shared: true 

>     - azure(PR=cf-ch20) -> E  # pool: hyperscalerType: azure_cf-ch20, euAccess: true

Reviewer 2: change to EU

| Eu Access (EU)       	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| euAccess: true                                                                                    	|
| Shared (S)           	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| shared: true                                                                                      	|

## Validation

KEB validates HAP Rules during startup. If the configuration is invalid, KEB will not start and an error message will be displayed in the logs. 

The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include:
* Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.

> * Every rule entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing plan then an error is returned during KEB startup that fails the process.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about that rule, disabling preview plan will require removing hap.rule for preview.

Author: Removed.

* Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry, if no rule entry is defined for a plan then an error is returned during KEB startup.
* Uniqueness validation check - KEB checks if all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. Specifying more than one entry with the same number of identification attributes is prohibited. If more than one such attribute is specified then the error is returned failing KEB startup. For more details see [Uniqnuess & Priority](#uniqnuess--priority) section. 

## Initial Configuration

The last example shows initial configuration created to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:
* azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
* gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` and all these pools are shared.

> * trial clusters can use one of two pools of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` depending on the used trial provider type.

Reviewer 2: I think this is hardcoded. PLease check and then change that trial has always aws.

Author: I will check tomorrow if it is controlled with: APP_PROVISIONER_DEFAULT_TRIAL_PROVIDER

> * azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 and aws clusters in the region cf-eu11 have their own dedicated pools.

Reviewer 2: and are euAccess specific

> [!NOTE] 
> * Input/Output attributes - true when the attribute can occur in the input/output attributes section (left part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).
> * Modified SecretBinding search labels - lists modifications of search labels that the rule entry containing the attribute adds to search labels if triggered. 

## Uniqueness and Priority

Only one rule can be triggered. If more than one rule entry matches the request, only one is selected and applied. The process of selecting the best matching rule is based on rule uniqueness and priority.
Rule entry uniqueness is determined by its plan and input parameters' values (identification attributes) not including input parameters with `*`. 
Output parameters are not taken into account when establishing rule entry uniqueness. For example, the following rule fails on startup because both rules can match every Kyma runtime:

```
hap:
  rule: 
    - gcp 

>     - gcp -> S                      # invalid entry, output attributes does not take part into uniqueness check

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - gcp -> S                      # invalid entry, output attributes do not take part in uniqueness check
```

    - gcp(PR=*)                     # invalid entry, both can be applied to the same Kyma Runtime

>     - gcp(HR=europe-west3)          # valid entry, new **HR** attribute makes the rule unique

Reviewer 3: It seems you can't use markdown inside code samples. Please change \*\*HR** to HR.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - azure(INPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,INPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,INPUT_ATTR_N) -> OUTPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,OUTPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,OUTPUT_ATTR_M
```

The input attribute types include **platformRegion** (`PR`) and **hyperscalerRegion** (`HR`). The output attribute types include **shared** (`S`) and **euAccess** (`EU`). 
Each attribute can be used at most once in a single rule entry.
**shared** and **euAccess** attributes are used only to apply their labels if rest of matched attributes are equal to SKR's values. 

## Rule Evaluation

HAP evaluates a set of rules to determine what labels to use when querying secret bindings.
Rule is evaluated during cluster provisioning. Rule entries are analyzed one by one.
Input attributes from every entry are compared with values from SKR input. If they are the same then the rule entry is considered matched.
If there is more than one triggered rule then only one is selected in accordance to priority rules described in the [Priority](#priority) section.
If there are no rule entries trigered then the error is returned. No fallback behaviour is defined in such case.

## Search Labels

> HAP stores credentials to hyperscaler accounts in Kubernetes Secrets that SecretBindings points to. KEB searches for SecretBindings using labels **hyperscalerType**, **shared** and **euAccess**. 

Author: Yes

The following table shows a mapping of plans to hyperscaler types:

| Plan                	| Hyperscaler Type 	|
|---------------------	|------------------	|
| azure               	| azure            	|
| azure_lite          	| azure            	|
| aws                 	| aws              	|
| free                  | azure, aws        |
| gcp                 	| gcp              	|
| preview             	| aws              	|
| sap-converged-cloud 	| openstack       	|
| trial               	| aws              	|

The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they are used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional.

Every rule must contain at least a plan and apply `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>` label. The following example shows a simple rule entry configuration and a SecretBinding pool that this configuration corresponds to:

```
hap:
  rule:
    - gcp                             # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp
```

> Rest of examples in the document follow the same structure of presenting a configuration and its corresponding pools in the comment as the snippet above.

Author: For me it is suitable, let's discuss it.

## Rule Attributes

Existence of an attribute in a rule means a set of clusters it applies to is constrained not only by a plan but by the attribute itself. The following section describes attributes that can be used in rule entries.

### Platform Region Attribute

> It is possible to extend a rule entry with specified platform region by adding  a `PR` rule attribute. If an actual value of SKR's platform region attribute matches the PR rule attribute then `hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>]` label is used.

Reviewer: Should be:
`hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>_<PLATFORM_REGION>` label is used.

Without brackets.

> It is possible to extend a rule entry with specified platform region by adding  a `PR` rule attribute. If an actual value of SKR's platform region attribute matches the PR rule attribute then `hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>]` label is used.

Reviewer 3: If I'm wrong about the formatting, keep the current version, but please replace 'SKR' with 'Kyma runtime'.

Below configuration means that if a gcp cluster is provisioned in cf-sa30 platform region, then KEB would search for secret bindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30` label. 

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(PR=cf-sa30)                 # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30
```

### Hyperscaler Region Attribute

> A region that an SKR is provisioned in can be matched with an attribute named `HR`. Below configuration specifies the azure plan as one for which to use hyperscaler region based search. In this case, cluster provisioned with the azure plan would require a secret binding with `hyperscalerType: azure_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` label. 

Author: Independently.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(HR=us-central1)             # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp_us-central1,
```

### Shared & EU Access attribute

The `shared` and `euAccess` attributes does not correspond to any SKR's property. Those atributes are only used to add search labels. If the rule entry contains `shared` or `euAccess` attributes then when triggered, a `shared: true` or `euAccess: true` labels are added to the [search labels](#search-labels). Shared label on a SecretBindings marks it as assignable to more than one SKR and euAccess is used to mark EU regions (more on that can be found in [HAP Pool document](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md)). Below configuration specifies that all gcp clusters will use the same pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: gcp`, `shared: true` and azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 will use a pool of secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: azure`, `euAccess: true`.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp -> S                        # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp; shared: true 
    - azure(PR=cf-ch20) -> EU          # pool: hyperscalerType: azure_cf-ch20, euAccess: true
```

### Attribute with "*"

> Input attributes' values can be replaced with `*`, which means that all SKR's values of that attribute are matched and used when creating [search labels](#search-labels). For example, the following configuration makes KEB search for SecretBindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_<PR>`, where `PR` corresponds to an SKR value, for all `gcp` clusters:

Reviewer 3: If I'm wrong about the formatting, keep the current version, but please replace 'SKR' with 'Kyma runtime'.

> Input attributes' values can be replaced with `*`, which means that all SKR's values of that attribute are matched and used when creating [search labels](#search-labels). For example, the following configuration makes KEB search for SecretBindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_<PR>`, where `PR` corresponds to an SKR value, for all `gcp` clusters:

Author: TODO: Format with bold.

Rule entry uniqueness is determined by its plan and input parameters with its values (identification attributes) not including input parameters with `*`. 
Output parameters are not taken into account when establishing rule entry uniqueness. For example the following rule will fail on startup because every SKR can be matched by both rules:

```
hap:
  rule: 
    - gcp 
    - gcp -> S                      # invalid entry, output attributes does not take part into uniqnuess check
    - gcp(PR=*)                     # invalid entry, both can be applied to the same skr
    - gcp(HR=europe-west3)          # valid entry, new HR attribute makes the rule unique
    - gcp(PR=*, HR=europe-west3)    # invalid rules, the same as previous one because of addition of `PR=*` attribute
```

Rule configuration must contain only unique entries in the scope of that list.
If rule configuration contains duplicated rule entries an error that fails KEB startup is returned.

Rule entry priority is selected by sorting all rule entries that apply to the request by the number of identification attributes they contain. 

> For example, a rule with no attributes and only a plan has lower priority then a rule with the same plan but a platform region attribute (`gcp` < `gcp(PR=cf-sa30)`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, a rule including only a plan and no attributes has lower priority than a rule with the same plan and a platform region attribute (`gcp` < `gcp(PR=cf-sa30)`).
```

After sorting the entry that specifies most attributes (hence is the most specific) is selected. 
Input attributes with value `*` are not taken into account when calculating priority.

> The following example shows priority of rules starting from the lowest priority:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows the priority of the listed rules starting from the lowest:
```

```
aws -> S                              # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws, shared: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU                 # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11, euAccess: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11, HR=westeu) -> EU, S   # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11_westeu, shared: true, euAccess: true
```

## Validation

KEB validates HAP Rules during startup. If the configuration is invalid, KEB will not start and an error message will be displayed in the logs. 

> The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include the following:
```

> * Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Rules format check: All the rules must comply with the specified format.
```

> * Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry, if no rule entry is defined for a plan then an error is returned during KEB startup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry; if no rule entry is defined for a plan,  an error is returned during KEB startup.
```

> * Uniqueness validation check - KEB checks if all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. Specifying more than one entry with the same number of identification attributes is prohibited. If more than one such attribute is specified then the error is returned failing KEB startup. For more details see [Uniqnuess & Priority](#uniqnuess--priority) section. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Uniqueness validation check: KEB checks if all rule entries are unique in the rule's scope. You must not specify more than one entry with the same number of identification attributes. Otherwise, the error is returned, failing KEB startup. For more details, see the [Uniqueness & Priority](#uniqueness-and-priority) section. 
```

> 
> 
> ## Initial Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

## Initial Configuration
```

> The last example shows initial configuration created to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows the initial configuration created to mimic KEB behavior. The configuration enforces the following:
```

> * azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The azure, aws, and gcp plans have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
```

> * free plan uses aws or azure dedicated bindings depending on the provider value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The free plan uses aws or azure dedicated bindings, depending on the provider value.
```

> * gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* gcp clusters in the cf-sa30 region use the pool of secret bindings marked with the `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`  label.
```

> * sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` and all these pools are shared.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with the `hyperscalerType: openstack_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` label, and all these pools are shared.
```

> * trial clusters can use one of two pools of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` depending on the used trial provider type.

Reviewer 3: Please use code font for all the technical names.

> * trial clusters can use one of two pools of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` depending on the used trial provider type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Trial clusters can use one of two pools of shared secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws`, depending on the trial provider type used.
```

Author: Trial is a plan name written in lower case on the same basis as in previous bullet points.

> * azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 and aws clusters in the region cf-eu11 have their own dedicated pools and are euAccess specific.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* azure clusters in the cf-ch20 region and aws clusters in the cf-eu11 region have their own dedicated pools and are euAccess specific.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

See an example of the initial configuration created to mimic KEB behavior.
```

Reviewer 3: It makes more sense to put this sentence right before the example than in line 225.

# HAP Rule Configuration

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is still being developed and will be available soon.

 The Hyperscaler Account Pool (HAP) Rule Configuration is a functionality that allows to control pool selection from a configurable helm property. 
 The HAP Pool is a set of Gardener's SecretBindings K8S resources that share the same labels. 
 The HAP Pool Selection is a process that for every SKR creation request decides on which secret binding is the most suitable to use. 
 The process generates a list of [search labels](#search-labels) based on SKR's attributes.
 The [search labels](#search-labels) are used to query Gardener's Secret Bindings.
 [search labels](#search-labels) are generated by evaluating a Rule consisting of Rule Entries and if an entry applies to the request then the rule outputs its specific [search labels](#search-labels) to query the correct HAP Pool.
 More about HAP process can be found in [Hyperscaler Account Pool](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md) document.

> ![Rules Evaluation Process](../assets/hap-rules-general.drawio.svg)

Reviewer 2: I found that "shared" attribute is missing on that picture?

Every rule must contain at least a plan and apply `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>` label. For example, the following example shows a simple rule entry configuration and a SecretBinding pool that this configuration corresponds to:

```
hap:
  rule:
    - gcp # pool: hyperscalerType: gcp
```

The following table shows the mapping of plans to hyperscaler types:

| Plan                	| Hyperscaler Type 	|
|---------------------	|------------------	|
| azure               	| azure            	|
| azure_lite          	| azure            	|
| aws                 	| aws              	|
| gcp                 	| gcp              	|
| preview             	| aws              	|

> | sap-converged-cloud 	| openstack_<HR>   	|

Author: Thank you. Since this table is just about mappings I will remove `_HR` from openstack entry, ok?

> | trial               	| aws              	|

Author: I think that they also require eu access variant? As well as preview and azure_lite.

> | trial               	| aws              	|

Author: Added here: https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/pull/1675/commits/06542126d7a9db9eec488092f19beee3b7dacf57

| Eu Access (EU)       	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| euAccess: true                                                                                    	|
| Shared (S)           	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| shared: true                                                                                      	|

## Validation

KEB validates HAP Rules during startup. If the configuration is invalid, KEB will not start and an error message will be displayed in the logs. 

The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include:
* Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.
* Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup
* Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry, if no rule entries for plan defined then error is returned for SKR.

> * Uniqnuess validation check - KEB checks that all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Uniqueness validation check - KEB checks that all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. 
```

In its minimal form each rule consists of a `PLAN` that the rule applies to.
In its extended form a rule entry contains lists of input attributes and its values passed in the form of `ATTR=VAL` pairs in parantheses.

> ![NOTE]
> The following rule entries are considered valid and the same:
> * `aws`
> * `aws()`

Output attributes does not support values.
Description of when the rule is triggered can be found in the [Rule Evaluation](#evaluation) section.
Rule Attributes are described in [Rule Attributes](#rule-attributes) section. 

Currently, possible OUTPUT_ATTR_x attributes values are `S` or `E`.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - azure(INPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,INPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,INPUT_ATTR_N) -> OUTPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,OUTPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,OUTPUT_ATTR_N
```

The input attribute types include **platformRegion** (`PR`), **clusterRegion** (`CR`). The output attribute types include **shared** (`S`) and **euAccess** (`E`). 
Each attribute can be used at most once in a single rule entry.
**shared** and **euAccess** attributes are used only to apply their labels modifications if rest of matched attributes are equal to SKR's values. 

> Rule Entry results include `S` and `E`. They are described in [Rule Results](#rule-results) section.

Reviewer 2: link doesnt work

Author: Removed. Weird old sentence that is redundant because of describing output attributes in the paragraph above.

> TODO: table with mapping...???

Reviewer 2: what do u mean?

Reviewer: I think this is map you requested in another comment - with openstack etc.

Author: I forgot what this "TODO" was about and wanted to ask about clarification. Jaroslaw is right, clarified.

Rule entry priority is selected by sorting all the rules entries that apply to the request by the number of indentification attributes they contain. 
For example, a rule with no attributes and only plan has lower priority then a rule with the same plan but a platform region attribute (`gcp` < `gcp(PR=cf-sa30)`).

After sorting the entry that specifies most attributes (hence is more specific) is selected. 
Input attributes with value `*` is not taken into account when calculating priority.

The following example shows the priority of the rules from the general rule to more specific ones:

```
aws -> S # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws, shared: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11, euAccess: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11, CR=westeu) -> EU, S # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11_westeu, shared: true, euAccess: true
```

## Search Labels

The HAP stores credentials for the hyperscaler accounts that have been set up in advance in Kubernetes Secrets that the Secret Bindings, that KEB searches for, point to. The SecretBindings are labeld with **hyperscalerType**, **shared** and **euAccess** labels. 

> The **hyperscaler-type** contains hyperscaler name and region information in the format `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>][_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>]`, where both `_<PLATFORM_REGION>` and `_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` are optional. The **hypercaler-type** label is mandatory. It is value is hardcoded and computed based on a plan in [hyperscaler_type.go](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/blob/main/common/hyperscaler/hyperscaler_type.go). This means that not all plans share their name with hyperscaler types, e.g. sap-converged-plan has `openstack` hyperscalerType and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` depending on the cluster regions. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional

Reviewer 2: about "converged-plan has `openstack` hyperscalerType and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` depending on the cluster regions"

1) add here a small table 
2) include azure_lite which search ro hyperscyler-type azure
3) trial "depending on the cluster regions" or provider?

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - gcp(PR=*)
```

```
SecretBinding pools:
- hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30
- hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-jp30
```

The attributes that support `*` include: `PR`, `CR`.

> ![NOTE]
> The above configuration example effectively disables usage of SecretBindings with only `hyperscalerType: gcp` label.

### Atributes Summary

The following table summarizes the attributes that can be used in the rule entry. Its columns define:
* Name and symbol - the later is used in rule entries.
* Data type and possible values.
* Input attributes - if value is true then the attribute can occure in the input attributes section (left part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).
* Output attributes - if value is true then the attribute can occure in the output attributes section (right part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).
* Modified SecretBinding search labels - lists modifications of search labels that the rule entry containing the attribute adds to search labels if triggered. 

> | Name (Symbol)        	| Data Type and Possible Values                                                                                                                    	| Input Attribute 	| Output Attribute 	| Modified SecretBinding Search Labels                                                              	|

Reviewer 2: PR and CR are as well output params. Add another column with location (right left) then:
in out location
1) PR is true true left
2) S is false true right 
etc

Reviewer: Is it not excessive @PK85 ? I thought Input, Output and Search Labels are enough to define all we need.

Author: I think such column is redundant because input parameters are on the left of the rule and output on the right.

Reviewer: > PR and CR are as well output params. Add another column with location (right left) then: in out location
> 
> 1. PR is true true left
> 2. S is false true right
>    etc

We have discrepancy.
Are PR and HR output parameters? According to the table not.
There are not on the right side of the rule (after the `->`).
But they are used in hyperscaler type.

|----------------------	|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|-----------------	|------------------	|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|
| Platform Region (PR) 	| string, platform regions as defined in https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/regions-for-kyma-environment 	| true            	| false            	| hyperscalerType: `<providerType>_<PR>` or hyperscalerType: `<providerType>_<PR>_<CR>` if used with CR 	|

> | Cluster Region (CR)  	| string, cluster region as defined in https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/regions-for-kyma-environment   	| true            	| false            	| hyperscalerType: `<providerType>_<CR>` or hyperscalerType: `<providerType>_<PR>_<CR>` if used with PR 	|

Reviewer 2: Change Cluster Region to  Hyperscaler Region. Cause in another parts of the document you use <HYPERSCALER_NAME> for plan name

## Validation

KEB validates HAP Rules during startup. If the configuration is invalid, KEB will not start and an error message will be displayed in the logs. 

The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include:
* Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.
* Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup
* Every Rule Entry must refer to an existing pool.
* Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry, if no rule entries for plan defined then error is returned for SKR.
* Uniqnuess validation check - KEB checks that all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. 
Specifying more than one rule with the same number of identification attributes is prohibited. 
If more than one such attribute is specified then the error is returned during KEB startup. For more details see [Uniqnuess & Priority](#uniqnuess--priority) section. 

An example of such failing configurations is presented below.

> // TODO:

Reviewer 2: Provide examples: I left a ton of them last time

Author: Removed leftover todo. I have truncated examples to necessary minimum.

## Initial Configuration

The last example shows initial configuration create to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:
* azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
* gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<CLUSTER_REGION>` and all of the are shared.
* trial clusters can use one of two pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` (because of hardcoded mapping of trial plan to azure or aws providers) depending on the provider type.
* azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 and aws clusters in the region cf-eu11 have their own dedicated pool.

```
hap:
 rule: 
  - aws

>   - aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU

Reviewer 2: E or EU, decide finally

Author: Typo, corrected.

# HAP Rule Configuration

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is still being developed and will be available soon.

 The Hyperscaler Account Pool (HAP) Rule Configuration is a functionality that allows to control pool selection from a configurable helm property. 

>  The HAP pool is a set of Gardener's SecretBindings K8S resources that share the same labels. 

Reviewer: We need consistency: HAP Pool vs HAP pool.

 The HAP Pool Selection is a process that for every SKR creation request decides on which secret binding is the most suitable to use. 

>  The process generates a list of [search labels](#search-labels) based on skr's physical attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The process generates a list of [search labels](#search-labels) based on SKR's attributes.
```

 The [search labels](#search-labels) are used to query Gardener's Secret Bindings. 
 [search labels](#search-labels) are generated by evaluating a Rule consisting of Rule Entries and if an entry applies to the request then the rule outputs its specific [search labels](#search-labels) to query the correct HAP Pool.
 More about HAP process can be found in [Hyperscaler Account Pool](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md) document.

![Rules Evaluation Process](../assets/hap-rules-general.drawio.svg)

## Rule Configuration

The Rule is configured in values.yaml in `hap.rule` property.
It is a list of strings, each of which is a single Rule Entry that corresponds to a single HAP Pool. 
Each Rule Entry is evaluated during a cluster provisioning process.
If more than one rule applies the best matching rule is selected based on the rule [priority](#priority). The following examples presents the Rule Configuration in values.yaml:

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - rule_1
  - rule_2
  ...
  - rule_n
```

Every HAP Pool that the Rule Entry represents must be preconfigured in a Gardener Cluster that KEB connects to.

## Rule Format 

The following example shows the Rule Entry format:

```

> PLAN(INPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1, INPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2, ..., INPUT_ATTR_N=VAL_N) -> OUTPUT_ATTR_1, OUTPUT_ATTR_2, ..., OUTPUT_ATTR_N

Reviewer: This suggests that there are N pairs (attribute=value) and N output attributes which not necessarily is true.

```

Every rule entry consists of input and output attributes separated by the arrow symbol - `->`. 
Input attributes are used to match the rule entry with the SKR request and to modify [search labels](#search-labels). Output attributes are only used to modify the [search labels](#search-labels).
In its minimal form each rule consists of a `PLAN` that the rule applies to.
In its extended form a rule entry contains lists of input attributes and its values passed in the form of `ATTR=VAL` pairs in parantheses.

> ![NOTE]
> The following rule entries are considered valid and the same:
> * `aws`
> * `aws()`

Output attributes does not support values.

> Description of when the rule is triggered can be found in the [Rule Evaluation](#evaluation) section.

Author: They are not treated the same. "Matched" means that rule's input attributes are the same as SKR's attributes. There might be multiple matched rule entries. Triggered rule entry is the most narrowed one from the set of matched rule entries.

Rule Attributes are described in [Rule Attributes](#rule-attributes) section. 

Currently, possible OUTPUT_ATTR_x attributes values are `S` or `EU`.

```
hap: 
  rule: 

>   - azure(INPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,INPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,INPUT_ATTR_N) -> OUTPUT_ATTR_1=VAL_1,OUTPUT_ATTR_2=VAL_2,...,OUTPUT_ATTR_N

Reviewer: As in one of previous comments. Let's consider OUTPUT_ATTR_M.

```

The input attribute types include **platformRegion** (`PR`), **hyperscalerRegion** (`HR`). The output attribute types include **shared** (`S`) and **euAccess** (`EU`). 
Each attribute can be used at most once in a single rule entry.

> **shared** and **euAccess** attributes are used only to apply their labels modifications if rest of matched attributes are equal to SKR's values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**shared** and **euAccess** attributes are used only to apply their labels if rest of matched attributes are equal to SKR's values. 
```

Rule Entry results include `S` and `EU`. They are described in [Rule Results](#rule-results) section.

## Rule Evaluation

HAP evaluates a set of rules to determine what labels to use when querying secret bindings.
Rule is evaluated during cluster provisioning.
Rule entries are analyzed one by one.

> Physical attributes from every entry are compared with values from input, if they are the same the rule entry is considered triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attributes from every entry are compared with values from input, if they are the same the rule entry is considered triggered.
```

Reviewer: Here comes the "triggered" zone.

Author: Corrected to "matched"

If there is more than one triggered rule then only one is selected in accordance to priority rules described in the [Priority](#priority) section.
If there are no rule entries trigered then the error is returned. No fallback behaviour is defined in such case.

## Uniqnuess & Priority

Only one rule can be triggered.

> If more than one rule entry match the request than only one is filterd out and applied. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If more than one rule entry match the request than only one is selected and applied. 
```

> The process of selecting the best matching rule is based on a rule uniqnues and priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of selecting the best matching rule is based on a rule uniqueness and priority.
```

> Rule entry uniqnuess is determined by its plan and input parameters with its values (identification attributes) not including input parameters with `*`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rule entry uniqueness is determined by its plan and input parameters with its values (identification attributes) not including input parameters with `*`. 
```

> Output parameters are not taken into account when establishing rule entry uniqnuess. For example the following rule will fail on startup because every skr can be matched by both rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output parameters are not taken into account when establishing rule entry uniqueness. For example the following rule will fail on startup because every SKR can be matched by both rules:
```

```
hap:
  rule: 
    - gcp 
    - gcp -> S # invalid entry, output attributes does not take part into uniqnuess check
    - gcp(PR=*) # invalid entry, both can be applied to the same skr
```

> The similary behaviour occurs when the rule defined the same attributes values together with `*` value.

Reviewer: Description is not clear however the example is. I will try to rephrase.

Reviewer: similar
defines

Reviewer: If I am not mistaken the point is that the same SKR could match two rules, which is prohibited.
So this is the key, not using `*` per se.

```
hap:
  rule: 
    - gcp(HR=europe-west3) 
    - gcp(PR=*, HR=europe-west3) # invalid rules, both can be applied to the same skr
```

Rule configuration must contain only unique entries in the scope of that list.

> If rule configuration contains duplicated rule entries an error during KEB startup is returned.

Reviewer: The error is returned and KEB won't start?

Author: Yes, do you propose to add this information?

Reviewer: Yes. As in other parts of this document. We need to explicitly state when KEB does not start due to misconfiguration.

Author: Corrected.

> Rule entry priority is selected by sorting all the rules entries that apply to the request by the number of indentification attributes they contain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rule entry priority is selected by sorting all the rules entries that apply to the request by the number of identification attributes they contain. 
```

For example, a rule with no attributes and only plan has lower priority then a rule with the same plan but a platform region attribute (`gcp` < `gcp(PR=cf-sa30)`).

> After sorting the entry that specifies most attributes (hence is more specific) is selected. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After sorting the entry that specifies most attributes (hence is the most specific) is selected. 
```

Input attributes with value `*` is not taken into account when calculating priority.

The following example shows the priority of the rules from the general rule to more specific ones:

```
aws -> S # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws, shared: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11) -> EU # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11, euAccess: true
aws(PR=cf-eu11, HR=westeu) -> EU, S # search labels: hyperscalerType: aws_cf-eu11_westeu, shared: true, euAccess: true
```

## Search Labels

> The HAP stores credentials for the hyperscaler accounts that have been set up in advance in Kubernetes Secrets that the Secret Bindings, that KEB searches for, point to. The SecretBindings are labeld with **hyperscalerType**, **shared** and **euAccess** labels. 

Reviewer: I would consider rephrasing since this sentence is quite complicated and not easy to comprehend.

Author: Corrected.

> The **hyperscaler-type** contains hyperscaler name and region information in the format `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>][_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>]`, where both `_<PLATFORM_REGION>` and `_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` are optional. The **hypercaler-type** label is mandatory. It is value is hardcoded and computed based on a plan in [hyperscaler_type.go](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/blob/main/common/hyperscaler/hyperscaler_type.go). This means that not all plans share their name with hyperscaler types, e.g. sap-converged-plan has `openstack` hyperscalerType and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` depending on the configured provider type. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **hyperscaler-type** contains hyperscaler name and region information in the format `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>][_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>]`, where both `_<PLATFORM_REGION>` and `_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` are optional. The **hypercaler-type** label is mandatory. It is value is hardcoded and computed based on a plan in [hyperscaler_type.go](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/blob/main/common/hyperscaler/hyperscaler_type.go). This means that not all plans share their name with hyperscaler types, e.g. sap-converged-plan has `openstack` hyperscalerType and `trial` plan can have either `azure` or `aws` depending on the configured provider type. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels contain boolean values and they used to divide existing pools to secrets used by EU restricted regions and secrets shared by multiple Global Accounts. The **euAccess** and **shared** labels are optional.
```

Every rule must contain at least a plan and apply `hyperscaler_type: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>` label. For example, the following example shows a simple rule entry configuration and a SecretBinding pool that this configuration corresponds to:

```
hap:
  rule:
    - gcp

> SecretBinding pools:

Reviewer: IMHO this way of describing pools could be misleading for the reader and perceived as part of configuration.
I would consider adding this information as a comment after rule definition.

Reviewer: Or we need to separate it visually from configuration part.

Author: Examples moved to comments.

- hyperscalerType: gcp
```

The following table shows the mapping of plans to hyperscaler types:

| Plan                	| Hyperscaler Type 	|
|---------------------	|------------------	|
| azure               	| azure            	|
| azure_lite          	| azure            	|
| aws                 	| aws              	|
| gcp                 	| gcp              	|
| preview             	| aws              	|
| sap-converged-cloud 	| openstack_<HR>   	|
| trial               	| aws              	|

Rest of the examples in the document follow the same structure of presenting an example configuration and corresponding HAP pools as above snippet.

## Rule Attributes

Triggered rule entry applies that labels to the SecretBinding search query.
Rule entry attributes and its plan alter the search query by adding new or modifing existing [search labels](#search-labels). 
Existence of an attribute in the rule means its inclusion in the [search labels](#search-labels) in addition to labels associated with rule plan.

### Platform Region Attribute

> It is possible to extend the rule entry with specified platform region by adding  a `PR` rule attribute. The value of PR attributes is compared to region of a subaccount of SKR and, if triggered, applies `hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>]` label.

Reviewer: Consider please:
```suggestion
It is possible to extend the rule entry with specified platform region by adding  a `PR` rule attribute. If actual value of platform region attribute matches PR attribute, `hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>]` label is used.
```

> Below configuration means that if a gcp cluster is provisioned in cf-sa30 subaccount region then KEB would search for secret bindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30` label. 

Reviewer: Would be user aware that subaccount region is synonymous with platform region?

Author: Already described in Platform Region Attribute section:

```
It is possible to extend the rule entry with specified platform region by adding  a `PR` rule attribute. The value of PR attributes is compared to region of a subaccount of SKR and, if triggered, applies `hyperscalerType: <HYPERSCALER_NAME>[_<PLATFORM_REGION>]` label.
```

Reviewer: I am not entirely sure if it makes things better. We should use consistently term `platform region`, shouldn't we?

Author: Corrected.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(PR=cf-sa30)

> SecretBinding pools

Reviewer: If using comments is not appropriate, and this part reflects output some tool generates (i.e. KEB), we need to separate it from configuration maintained by user.

Author: If you mean leftover "SecretBinding" then it is removed.

> - hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30
```

Author: Corrected.

```

### Hyperscaler Region Attribute

A region that an SKR is provisioned in can be matched with an attribute named `HR`. Below configuration specifies azure plan as one for which to use hyperscaler region based search. In this case, cluster provisioned in with the azure plan would require a secret binding with `hyperscalerType: azure_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` label. 

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp(HR=us-central1)

SecretBinding pools

> - hyperscalerType: gcp_us-central1, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- hyperscalerType: gcp_us-central1
```

```

### Shared & EU Access attribute

> The `shared` and `euAccess` attributes does not correspond to any physical SKR property. It is a logical attribute that is used only to add its label. If the rule entry contains `shared` or `euAccess` attributes then when triggered a `shared: true` or `euAccess: true` labels are added to the [search labels](#search-labels) depending on which one of those two attributes is listed in the rule entry. Shared label on a SecretBindings marked it as assignable to more than one SKR and euAccess is a non-functional label not reused by KEB (more on that can be found in p[HAP Pool document](03-10-hyperscaler-account-pool.md)). Below configuration specifies that all gcp clusters will use the same pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: gcp`, `shared: true` and azure clusters in the region cf-ch20 will use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels `hyperscalerType: azure`, `euAccess: true`. 

Reviewer: Still I am not convinced that we should use terms logical and physical attribute. The only physical is HR.
So I suggest to keep it simple and not introduce this distinction.

Reviewer: What does it mean:
> not reused by KEB

Reviewer: And here we have `logical` leftover.

Author: Corrected.

```
hap: 
  rule: 
    - gcp -> S
    - azure(PR=cf-ch20) -> E

SecretBinding pools:
- hyperscalerType: gcp; shared: true
- hyperscalerType: azure_cf-ch20, euAccess: true
```

### Attribute with "*"

> Input attributes values can be replaced with `*` which means that all SKR values of that attribute are matched and reused in unchanged form when applying [search labels](#search-labels) modifications. For example, the following configuration makes KEB search SecretBindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_<PR>`, where `PR` corresponds to an SKR value, for all `gcp` clusters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input attributes values can be replaced with `*` which means that all SKR values of that attribute are matched and used when creating [search labels](#search-labels). For example, the following configuration makes KEB search SecretBindings with `hyperscalerType: gcp_<PR>`, where `PR` corresponds to an SKR value, for all `gcp` clusters:
```

```
hap: 
  rule: 
  - gcp(PR=*)
```

```
SecretBinding pools:
- hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30
- hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-jp30
```

The attributes that support `*` include: `PR`, `HR`.

> ![NOTE]
> The above configuration example effectively disables usage of SecretBindings with only `hyperscalerType: gcp` label.

### Atributes Summary

The following table summarizes the attributes that can be used in the rule entry. Its columns define:
* Name and symbol - the later is used in rule entries.
* Data type and possible values.

> * Input attributes - if value is true then the attribute can occure in the input attributes section (left part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Input attributes - if value is true then the attribute can occur in the input attributes section (left part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).
```

> * Output attributes - if value is true then the attribute can occure in the output attributes section (right part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Output attributes - true when the attribute can occur in the output attributes section (right part) of a rule entry (see [Rule Format](#rule-format) section).
```

| Eu Access (EU)       	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| euAccess: true                                                                                    	|
| Shared (S)           	| no value                                                                                                                           	| false           	| true             	| shared: true                                                                                      	|

## Validation

KEB validates HAP Rules during startup. If the configuration is invalid, KEB will not start and an error message will be displayed in the logs. 

The constraints used for validation during KEB startup include:
* Rules format check - all the rules must comply with the format specified above.

> * Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Every rule Entry must refer to an existing plan - if you define a rule with non existing pools then an error is returned if a during KEB startup.
```

Author: Corrected.

* Every Rule Entry must refer to an existing pool.

> * Every supported plan needs at least one rule entry, if no rule entries for plan defined then error is returned for SKR.

Reviewer: During startup and KEB will not start?

* Uniqnuess validation check - KEB checks that all rule entries are unique in the scope of the rule. 
Specifying more than one rule with the same number of identification attributes is prohibited. 
If more than one such attribute is specified then the error is returned during KEB startup. For more details see [Uniqnuess & Priority](#uniqnuess--priority) section. 

> An example of such failing configurations is presented below.

Reviewer: No example present.

Author: Leftover, removed.

## Initial Configuration

The last example shows initial configuration create to mimic the current bahaviour of KEB at the time of writing the document. The configuration enforces that:
* azure, aws, gcp have their own pools of dedicated bindings.
* gcp clusters in the region cf-sa30 use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: gcp_cf-sa30`,

> * sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pool of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` and all of the are shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* sap-converged-cloud clusters use the pools of secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: openstack_<HYPERSCALER_REGION>` and all these pools are shared.
```

Author: Corrected.

> * trial clusters can use one of two pool of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` depending on the configured trial provider type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* trial clusters can use one of two pools of shared secret bindings marked with labels: `hyperscalerType: azure` or `hyperscalerType: aws` depending on the used trial provider type.
```
